docs/src/scene/lights.rst, before:

Lights
======

Several light and sky models are contained inside the Ignis rendering framework.
Most number and color parameters can be connected to a shading network or texture via :ref:`PExpr <PExpr>`.

A light is specified in the :monosp:`lights` block with a :monosp:`name` and a :monosp:`type`.
The type has to be one of the lights listed at this section below.

.. code-block:: javascript
    
    {
        // ...
        "lights": [
            // ...
            {"name":"NAME", "type":"TYPE", /* DEPENDS ON TYPE */},
            // ...
        ]
        // ...
    }

Point Light (:monosp:`point`)
---------------------------------------------

.. objectparameters::

 * - position
   - |vector|
   - (0,0,0)
   - Position of the point light.
   
 * - intensity
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Intensity of the point light.
   
Directional Light (:monosp:`directional`)
---------------------------------------------

.. objectparameters::

 * - direction
   - |vector|
   - (0,0,1)
   - Direction of the directional light.
   
 * - theta, phi
   - |number|
   - 0, 0
   - Instead of :monosp:`direction` theta and phi given in degrees can be used.
   
 * - elevation, azimuth
   - |number|
   - 0, 0
   - Instead of :monosp:`direction` the elevation and azimuth of a celestial object given in degrees can be used.
   
 * - year, month, day, hour, minute, seconds, latitude, longitude, timezone
   - |number|
   - 2020, 5, 6, 12, 0, 0, 6.9965744, 49.235422, 2
   - Instead of :monosp:`direction` the time and location can be used. This will give the approximated direction from the sun.

 * - irradiance
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Output of the directional light.

Area Light (:monosp:`area`)
---------------------------------------------

.. objectparameters::

 * - entity
   - |entity|
   - *None*
   - A valid entity.

 * - radiance
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Output of the area light.
   
Sun Light (:monosp:`sun`)
---------------------------------------------

.. objectparameters::

 * - direction
   - |vector|
   - (0,0,1)
   - Direction of the incoming sun.
   
 * - theta, phi
   - |number|
   - 0, 0
   - Instead of :monosp:`direction` theta and phi given in degrees can be used.
   
 * - elevation, azimuth
   - |number|
   - 0, 0
   - Instead of :monosp:`direction` the elevation and azimuth of a celestial object given in degrees can be used.
   
 * - year, month, day, hour, minute, seconds, latitude, longitude, timezone
   - |number|
   - 2020, 5, 6, 12, 0, 0, 6.9965744, 49.235422, 2
   - Instead of :monosp:`direction` the time and location can be used. This will give the approximated direction from the sun.

 * - sun_scale
   - |number|
   - 1
   - Scale of the sun power in the sky.
   
 * - sun_radius_scale
   - |number|
   - 1
   - Scale of the sun radius in the sky.

Sky Light (:monosp:`sky`)
---------------------------------------------

.. objectparameters::

 * - ground
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Ground color of the sky model.

 * - turbidity
   - |number|
   - 3
   - Turbidity factor of the sky model.

 * - direction
   - |vector|
   - (0,0,1)
   - Direction of the incoming sun.
   
 * - theta, phi
   - |number|
   - 0, 0
   - Instead of :monosp:`direction` theta and phi given in degrees can be used.
   
 * - elevation, azimuth
   - |number|
   - 0, 0
   - Instead of :monosp:`direction` the elevation and azimuth of a celestial object given in degrees can be used.
   
 * - year, month, day, hour, minute, seconds, latitude, longitude, timezone
   - |number|
   - 2020, 5, 6, 12, 0, 0, 6.9965744, 49.235422, 2
   - Instead of :monosp:`direction` the time and location can be used. This will give the approximated direction from the sun.
   
This sky model is based on the paper "An Analytic Model for Full Spectral Sky-Dome Radiance"
and the 2013 IEEE CG&A paper "Adding a Solar Radiance Function to the Hosek Skylight Model" both by 
Lukas Hosek and Alexander Wilkie, both Charles University in Prague, Czech Republic at that time.

CIE Uniform Sky Model (:monosp:`cie_uniform`)
---------------------------------------------

.. objectparameters::

 * - zenith
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Zenith color of the sky model.

 * - ground
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Ground color of the sky model.

 * - ground_brightness
   - |number|
   - 0.2
   - Brightness of the ground.
   
CIE Cloudy Sky Model (:monosp:`cie_cloudy`)
---------------------------------------------

.. objectparameters::

 * - zenith
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Zenith color of the sky model.

 * - ground
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Ground color of the sky model.

 * - ground_brightness
   - |number|
   - 0.2
   - Brightness of the ground.
   
Perez Sky Model (:monosp:`perez`)
---------------------------------------------

.. objectparameters::

 * - direction
   - |vector|
   - (0,0,1)
   - Direction light.
   
 * - theta, phi
   - |number|
   - 0, 0
   - Instead of :monosp:`direction` theta and phi given in degrees can be used.
   
 * - elevation, azimuth
   - |number|
   - 0, 0
   - Instead of :monosp:`direction` the elevation and azimuth of a celestial object given in degrees can be used.
   
 * - year, month, day, hour, minute, seconds, latitude, longitude, timezone
   - |number|
   - 2020, 5, 6, 12, 0, 0, 6.9965744, 49.235422, 2
   - Instead of :monosp:`direction` the time and location can be used. This will give the approximated direction from the sun.

 * - luminance
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Luminance of the sky model.

 * - zenith
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Zenith color of the sky model. This can not be used together with :monosp:`luminance`.

 * - a, b, c, d, e
   - |number|
   - 1,1,1,1,1
   - Perez specific parameters.
   
Environment Light (:monosp:`env`)
---------------------------------------------

.. objectparameters::

 * - radiance
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Radiance of the sky model. This can also be a texture.
 * - scale
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Scale factor multiplied to the radiance. Only really useful in combination with a texture.

Commit message:

New environment map orientation (Y-Up) and many other fixes

docs/src/scene/lights.rst, after:

Lights
======

Several light and sky models are contained inside the Ignis rendering framework.
Most number and color parameters can be connected to a shading network or texture via :ref:`PExpr <PExpr>`.

A light is specified in the :monosp:`lights` block with a :monosp:`name` and a :monosp:`type`.
The type has to be one of the lights listed at this section below.

.. code-block:: javascript
    
    {
        // ...
        "lights": [
            // ...
            {"name":"NAME", "type":"TYPE", /* DEPENDS ON TYPE */},
            // ...
        ]
        // ...
    }

Point Light (:monosp:`point`)
---------------------------------------------

.. objectparameters::

 * - position
   - |vector|
   - (0,0,0)
   - Position of the point light.
   
 * - intensity
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Intensity of the point light.
   
Directional Light (:monosp:`directional`)
---------------------------------------------

.. objectparameters::

 * - direction
   - |vector|
   - (0,0,1)
   - Direction of the directional light.
   
 * - theta, phi
   - |number|
   - 0, 0
   - Instead of :monosp:`direction` theta and phi given in degrees can be used.
   
 * - elevation, azimuth
   - |number|
   - 0, 0
   - Instead of :monosp:`direction` the elevation and azimuth of a celestial object given in degrees can be used.
   
 * - year, month, day, hour, minute, seconds, latitude, longitude, timezone
   - |number|
   - 2020, 5, 6, 12, 0, 0, 6.9965744, 49.235422, 2
   - Instead of :monosp:`direction` the time and location can be used. This will give the approximated direction from the sun.

 * - irradiance
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Output of the directional light.

Area Light (:monosp:`area`)
---------------------------------------------

.. objectparameters::

 * - entity
   - |entity|
   - *None*
   - A valid entity.

 * - radiance
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Output of the area light.
   
Sun Light (:monosp:`sun`)
---------------------------------------------

.. objectparameters::

 * - direction
   - |vector|
   - (0,0,1)
   - Direction of the incoming sun.
   
 * - theta, phi
   - |number|
   - 0, 0
   - Instead of :monosp:`direction` theta and phi given in degrees can be used.
   
 * - elevation, azimuth
   - |number|
   - 0, 0
   - Instead of :monosp:`direction` the elevation and azimuth of a celestial object given in degrees can be used.
   
 * - year, month, day, hour, minute, seconds, latitude, longitude, timezone
   - |number|
   - 2020, 5, 6, 12, 0, 0, 6.9965744, 49.235422, 2
   - Instead of :monosp:`direction` the time and location can be used. This will give the approximated direction from the sun.

 * - sun_scale
   - |number|
   - 1
   - Scale of the sun power in the sky.
   
 * - sun_radius_scale
   - |number|
   - 1
   - Scale of the sun radius in the sky.

Sky Light (:monosp:`sky`)
---------------------------------------------

.. objectparameters::

 * - ground
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Ground color of the sky model.
 * - turbidity
   - |number|
   - 3
   - Turbidity factor of the sky model.
 * - direction
   - |vector|
   - (0,0,1)
   - Direction of the incoming sun.
 * - theta, phi
   - |number|
   - 0, 0
   - Instead of :monosp:`direction` theta and phi given in degrees can be used. 
 * - elevation, azimuth
   - |number|
   - 0, 0
   - Instead of :monosp:`direction` the elevation and azimuth of a celestial object given in degrees can be used.
 * - year, month, day, hour, minute, seconds, latitude, longitude, timezone
   - |number|
   - 2020, 5, 6, 12, 0, 0, 6.9965744, 49.235422, 2
   - Instead of :monosp:`direction` the time and location can be used. This will give the approximated direction from the sun.
 * - scale
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Scale factor multiplied to the radiance.
   
This sky model is based on the paper "An Analytic Model for Full Spectral Sky-Dome Radiance"
and the 2013 IEEE CG&A paper "Adding a Solar Radiance Function to the Hosek Skylight Model" both by 
Lukas Hosek and Alexander Wilkie, both Charles University in Prague, Czech Republic at that time.

CIE Uniform Sky Model (:monosp:`cie_uniform`)
---------------------------------------------

.. objectparameters::

 * - zenith
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Zenith color of the sky model.

 * - ground
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Ground color of the sky model.

 * - ground_brightness
   - |number|
   - 0.2
   - Brightness of the ground.
   
CIE Cloudy Sky Model (:monosp:`cie_cloudy`)
---------------------------------------------

.. objectparameters::

 * - zenith
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Zenith color of the sky model.

 * - ground
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Ground color of the sky model.

 * - ground_brightness
   - |number|
   - 0.2
   - Brightness of the ground.
   
Perez Sky Model (:monosp:`perez`)
---------------------------------------------

.. objectparameters::

 * - direction
   - |vector|
   - (0,0,1)
   - Direction light.
   
 * - theta, phi
   - |number|
   - 0, 0
   - Instead of :monosp:`direction` theta and phi given in degrees can be used.
   
 * - elevation, azimuth
   - |number|
   - 0, 0
   - Instead of :monosp:`direction` the elevation and azimuth of a celestial object given in degrees can be used.
   
 * - year, month, day, hour, minute, seconds, latitude, longitude, timezone
   - |number|
   - 2020, 5, 6, 12, 0, 0, 6.9965744, 49.235422, 2
   - Instead of :monosp:`direction` the time and location can be used. This will give the approximated direction from the sun.

 * - luminance
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Luminance of the sky model.

 * - zenith
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Zenith color of the sky model. This can not be used together with :monosp:`luminance`.

 * - a, b, c, d, e
   - |number|
   - 1,1,1,1,1
   - Perez specific parameters.
   
Environment Light (:monosp:`env`)
---------------------------------------------

.. objectparameters::

 * - radiance
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Radiance of the sky model. This can also be a texture.
 * - scale
   - |color|
   - (1,1,1)
   - Scale factor multiplied to the radiance. Only really useful in combination with a texture.
 * - cdf
   - |bool|
   - true
   - Construct a 2d cdf for sampling purposes. Will only be considered if parameter `radiance` is an :monosp:`image` texture (without PExpr and other terms)
